what is dependency injection ? Explain
Dependency Injection is a design principle used to build loosely coupled applications. Instead of a class creating the objects it depends on internally using new, those dependencies are created outside the class and passed in — most commonly through the constructor.
In practice, the dependency is usually declared as an interface, not a concrete class. So the class doesn't depend on a specific implementation — it depends on a contract. Any class that implements that interface can be injected, and the dependent class doesn't need to know or care which one it actually got — it just calls the interface's methods, and the correct implementation runs at runtime through polymorphism.
This gives us loose coupling: I can swap implementations, inject mock objects for unit testing, and follow the Single Responsibility and Dependency Inversion principles — since the class depends on an abstraction, not a concrete type

Example 
public interface IEngine
{
    void Start();
}


With DI and an Interface (Loosely Coupled)
public interface IEngine
{
    void Start();
}

Now create implementations:

public class PetrolEngine : IEngine
{
    public void Start() { }
}

public class DieselEngine : IEngine
{
    public void Start() { }
}

public class ElectricEngine : IEngine
{
    public void Start() { }
}
The Car class stays the same:

public class Car
{
    private IEngine engine;

    public Car(IEngine engine)
    {
        this.engine = engine;
    }
}

Now you can do:
Car car1 = new Car(new PetrolEngine());
Car car2 = new Car(new DieselEngine());
Car car3 = new Car(new ElectricEngine());
Notice that the Car class was never modified.
So why is it loosely coupled?
Because Car depends only on the IEngine interface, not on a specific engine implementation.

If you create a new HybridEngine, you don't change Car.
You don't change IEngine either (unless you want to add new methods to the interface).
You simply create:
If the interviewer asks "How does it make the application loosely coupled?", continue with:
The class depends on an interface rather than a concrete class. For example, if Car depends on IEngine, I can inject PetrolEngine, DieselEngine, or ElectricEngine without changing the Car class. 
I only change the implementation that's registered with the DI container.

What is Transient ?
A Transient service creates a new object every time it is resolved by the DI container. It does not create a new object every time a method is called on an existing instance.
Transient is a service lifetime in ASP.NET Core Dependency Injection. When a service is registered as Transient, the DI container creates a new instance every time the service is resolved.
It is generally used for lightweight, stateless services.
Resolving a service means the DI container creates or returns an instance of the requested service.

what is a lifetime service?
A service lifetime defines how long an object created by the Dependency Injection (DI) container should exist before it is discarded or recreated.

what is scope service?
We use Scoped services when the same service instance should be shared throughout a single HTTP request but not across different requests.
It is commonly used for DbContext, repositories, and business services because all operations within one request use the same object, ensuring consistency and avoiding unnecessary object creation. 
A new instance is created for each new HTTP request

DbContext represents a unit of work for a single request and is not thread-safe. Registering it as Scoped ensures each HTTP request gets its own DbContext instance, preventing data conflicts and concurrency 
issues while keeping all database operations within that request consistent.

What is Singleton?

Definition:

Singleton is a service lifetime where the DI container creates only one instance of the service and shares that same instance across all HTTP requests for the entire lifetime of the application.
1. Configuration Service
appsettings.json
3. Logger Configuration

The application's logging configuration is the same for everyone.

There's no need to create a new configuration object for each request.

what is application lifetime?
When you deploy your ASP.NET Core application to IIS, Azure, Docker, or another server:
The application starts running.
It begins accepting HTTP requests.
This is the start of the application lifetime.
It continues running until:
You stop the application.
You restart the server.
You redeploy a new version.
The application crashes or is recycled by the server.

Then the application lifetime ends.

What is middleware explain it in detail?
Middleware is a software component in ASP.NET Core that is part of the HTTP request pipeline. Every incoming HTTP request passes through middleware before reaching the controller, 
and every outgoing HTTP response also passes through middleware before being sent to the client. Each middleware performs a specific task such as authentication, authorization, logging, 
exception handling, or CORS. After completing its work, it can either pass the request to the next middleware or stop the pipeline and return an appropriate response.

What is filter?
Middleware and Filters both allow us to execute code before and after a request, but they work at different levels. 
Middleware executes for every HTTP request before it reaches the controller and is used for application-wide concerns like authentication, CORS, logging, and exception handling. 
Filters execute only for MVC/Web API controller actions and are used for action-specific concerns such as action logging, model validation, exception handling, and modifying action results.
Middleware doesn't know which controller or action will execute. Filters run after routing has selected the controller and action, so they have access to action arguments, model state, controller context, and action results. 
That's why action-specific logic is implemented with filters rather than middleware
Because Middleware does not know which controller or action is going to execute, whereas Filters do.
We use Middleware for application-level processing and Filters for controller/action-level processing because Filters have access to MVC-specific information that Middleware does not.

What is a Controller?
A Controller is a class in ASP.NET Core that handles incoming HTTP requests, calls the appropriate business logic (through services), and returns an HTTP response to the client.


design patterns?
We use this architecture to separate responsibilities. The API project handles HTTP requests and responses, the Core project contains the business logic, interfaces, entities, and business rules,
while the Infrastructure project contains implementation details such as Entity Framework, repositories, database access, and external services. 
This architecture makes the application loosely coupled, easier to maintain, easier to test, and allows us to replace technologies like the database without affecting the business logic

What is EfCore ?
Entity Framework Core is Microsoft's Object-Relational Mapper (ORM) for .NET. It allows developers to interact with databases using C# objects and LINQ instead of writing SQL queries manually. 
EF Core translates C# queries into SQL, executes them against the database, and maps the results back to C# objects. It simplifies database operations, improves productivity, supports CRUD operations, 
and provides features such as migrations and change tracking.

what is ORM?
ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) is a technique that maps objects in an application to tables in a relational database. 
It allows developers to work with objects instead of writing SQL queries directly

What is JWT?
JWT (JSON Web Token) is a token-based authentication mechanism used to securely authenticate users. After a successful login, the server generates a signed token containing user information
called claims and sends it to the client. The client stores the token and includes it in the Authorization header of every subsequent request. The server validates the token before allowing access 
to protected resources. 
JWT is stateless because the server does not store user session information
It has three parts:
Headers: algorithm and token type
Payload: contains the user information which is called as payload
A JWT token consists of three parts: Header, Payload, and Signature. The Signature is generated by combining the Header and Payload and signing them using a secret key and a signing algorithm such as HS256.
This signature ensures that the token has not been modified.


what is DTO? 
sor sending or receiving the data 

what is generic class?
We use a Generic Repository so that we don't have to write the same CRUD operations for every entity. Instead of creating separate repositories for Employee, Product, Customer, etc., we create a single generic repository that 
works with any entity type. This reduces code duplication, improves reusability, and makes the code easier to maintain.
A Generic Class is a reusable class that uses a type parameter (T) instead of a fixed data type. This allows the same class to work with different types or entities. 
In my project, we used a Generic Repository so that one repository implementation could perform common CRUD operations for different entities like Employee, Product, and Customer, 
instead of creating separate repository classes for each entity.
This improves code reusability, reduces duplication, and makes the application easier to maintain.

const
const is a compile-time constant whose value must be assigned at the time of declaration and cannot be changed later.

static readonly is a runtime constant shared by all objects of a class. It is initialized once during declaration or in the static constructor and cannot be modified afterward.
var is a compile-time feature where the compiler automatically determines the variable's type from the assigned value.

dynamic is a runtime feature where type checking is performed during execution instead of at compile time.
object is the base class of all .NET types. It can store any value or reference type, but requires explicit casting to access the original type.

What is Reflection?
Reflection allows you to examine and interact with classes, methods, properties, and assemblies during runtime, even if you don't know them at compile time.

Stack Vs HEap in terms of value and type variable?
"When I create a value type, like an int, the value itself is stored on the stack. When I create a reference type,
like an object with new, the actual object goes on the heap, and only a reference — basically an address — to that object is stored on the stack.
int a = 5;              // 5 is stored directly on the stack
Person p = new Person(); // the Person object is on the heap
                          // 'p' itself (the reference/address) sits on the stack


What are Extension Methods?
Extension methods allow us to add new methods to existing data types (without modifying their original code), and we can use them anywhere in the application — as long as we import the namespace where the 
extension method is defined, using the using directive.
using System;

public static class Event
{
    public static bool checkEven(this int num)
    {
        return num % 2 == 0;
    }
}

public class HelloWorld
{
    public static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("Start small. Ship something.");

        int n = 9;
        bool result = n.checkEven();
        Console.WriteLine(result);   // False
    }
}

Extension methods will always be static in nature 

What is Events and Delegates explain it in detail?



What is thread ?
A thread is an independent path of execution within a process, created and managed by the operating system. Each thread has its own call stack and runs code sequentially, and the OS scheduler decides when 
each thread actually gets CPU time.



const     Value fixed at compile time. Must be assigned at declaration. Can never change.
readonly  Value fixed at runtime, but can be assigned once — either at declaration or inside the constructor. Cannot change after that.
staticHas nothing to do with immutability. It means the member belongs to the class itself, not to any individual instance — shared across all objects. A static field can absolutely be changed at runtime,
          unless you also mark it readonly or make it a const.





what is a task?
A Task is a higher-level abstraction representing asynchronous work that will complete eventually. It may use a thread from the thread pool for CPU-bound work, but for I/O-bound work, 
it can run without blocking any thread at all while waiting.


