Difference between DELETE, TRUNCATE, DROP.\
"DELETE is a DML (Data Manipulation Language) command — it removes specific rows from a table based on a WHERE condition. If I don't specify a WHERE clause, it deletes all rows
, but the table structure remains intact.

TRUNCATE is a DDL (Data Definition Language) command — it removes ALL rows from a table at once, but keeps the table structure intact. 
Unlike DELETE, I can't use a WHERE clause with TRUNCATE — it always removes everything

DROP is also a DDL command, but it's the most destructive — it removes the ENTIRE table, including its structure, data, indexes, and constraints.
After DROP, the table no longer exists in the database at all

What are Stored Procedures?
A Stored Procedure is a precompiled set of SQL statements stored in the database, which I can call by name whenever I need to execute that logic — 
instead of writing and sending raw SQL queries from the application every time
Stored Procedures are precompiled and their execution plan is cached by the database, so repeated calls execute faster compared to sending raw ad-hoc SQL queries every time.
Business logic involving complex queries can be centralized in the database — multiple applications or services can call the same stored procedure instead of duplicating the same SQL logic in different codebases


What are Views?
virtual table to create virtual data it saves us from writing the repetitive code 
it saves us from security purpose we create a view and give it to someone who should not be view the sensitive information;
So to directly answer — a normal View just saves me from writing repetitive SQL and helps with security/abstraction, it does NOT make queries faster on its own, since it re-runs the same query underneath every time.
Only an Indexed or Materialized View actually improves performance, because it physically stores the precomputed result instead of recalculating it every time


What is CTE?
Yes, exactly right — a CTE, or Common Table Expression, is used to break down a large, complex query into smaller, more readable, named parts. Instead of writing deeply nested subqueries, 
WITH HighSalaryEmployees AS (
    SELECT Id, Name, Salary FROM Employees WHERE Salary > 50000
)
SELECT * FROM HighSalaryEmployees WHERE Name LIKE 'J%';
"Here, instead of writing one big nested query, I split it into a clear CTE fiI define a CTE using the WITH clause, giving a name to that intermediate result, and then reference it in my main 
query — just like a temporary table


what is normalisation?
Normalization is the process of organizing data in a database to reduce redundancy and improve data integrity. It involves breaking down a large table into smaller, related tables, and defining 
relationships between them using Foreign Keys — so that the same piece of data isn't unnecessarily duplicated across multiple rows.


What are Transactions?
A Transaction is a group of one or more SQL operations that are executed together as a single unit of work — either ALL of them succeed and get saved, or if any one fails,
ALL of them get rolled back, leaving the database unchanged. This ensures data stays consistent, especially in operations involving multiple related steps.


What is ACID peroperties?
Atomocity either all operations passed or failed 
consistency before and after transaction the database must be valid
Isoloation multiple transaction running at the same time does not interfere with each other 
Durability:- urability means once a transaction is committed, the changes are permanent — even if the system crashes immediately afterward, the committed data will not be lost.
It's typically achieved through mechanisms like transaction log
